# Summary
Analysing the difference between pair trips between Aurora and Tycho Brahe estimates that there is an energy saving potential of at least 10%. This assumes that components from the *Loading condition*, *Environment* and the *Energy efficiency of the ships* is constant for the short time window in the pair trips. It has been confirmed that the measured mean wind speed differs less than {glue:}`w_max_diff` m/s between Aurora and Tycho Brahe in the investigated trip pairs. The other assumptions about the environmental conditions are harder to confirm, but it seems very unlikely that the current or waves can change within the short time window. The assumption about constant loading condition is also hard to confirm, as there was no data available on the number of trains, trucks and cars that was loaded on each trip, but is seems reasonable that the traffic flow is constant over a short time window. 

The energy saving potential from the analysis of pair trips further assumes that the one of the ships which has the smallest energy consumption has the optimal operation, which is probably not true. The real optimum has even smaller energy consumption, so that the value of 10% energy saving should be regarded as a modest estimation. It should be possible to save even more than the estimated 10% if the operation of these ships is further optimized.

It has also been found that the ship speed is the single most important factor to the energy consumption. Trips with high energy consumption also have a high mean ship speed, so that the more optimal ship in the pairs also has the lower ship speed. The estimated energy saving potential assumes that the other ship in the pair can also have a lower ship speed by avoiding delayed departure, early arrival or detours along the trip.